Venerable Ones, the seven adhikarana-samatha dharmas have been recited by me. Therefore, I ask
the Venerable Ones – Are you completely pure in this matter?A second and also a third time
I ask-Are you completely pure in this matter?Since there is silence, the Venerable Ones
are completely pure in this matter. Thus do I understand.

1. Enduring patience is the highest austerity, Nirvāṇa is the highest, say the Buddhas;for he
who harms others is not a monk, he who violates others is not a śramaṇa.2. Just as one endowed
with sight, in exerting effort, [should avoid] misconduct;so the wise man should avoid
the evils in the world of men.3. Not censuring [others], not harming others, and restraint
according to the Prātimokṣa;moderation in eating, secluded dwelling, and union with adhicitta;
this is the Teaching of the Buddhas,4. As a bee, not agitating the scent or color
of a flower, flies away, taking [only] the nectar; so should a sage enter a village.5. [One
should not contemplate] the faults of others, or what is done and not done by others;but
one should contemplate the same difficulties concerning himself.6. For the wise one, trained
in the steps of sagehood, there is no delight in superior intellect;for the tranquil
protector, always mindful, there are no sorrows.7. Merit increases for one who gives, enmitydoes
not accumulate for one who is well restrained;the virtuous one renounces evil, and
because of putting an end to the kleśas, attains bliss, 8. Not to do any evil, to attain
good, to completely subdue one's own mind;this is the Teaching of the Buddhas,9. Restraint
of the body is good, restraint of speech is good, and restraint in all regards is good;the
monk who is restrained in all regards is released from all suffering.10. He who guards his
speech, is well restrained in his mind, and does not perform evil with his body;being purified
regarding the paths of action in these three, shall attain the road proclaimed by
the ṛṣis.11 and 12. This Prātimokṣa was recited in detail by these seven celebrated, self-possessed
Buddhas who were the chief protectors and guardians of the world:Vipaśyin, Śikhin,
Viśvabhu, Krakucchanda, Kanakamuni, Kāśyapa, and immediately following, Śākyamuni Gautama,
the God of Gods, the charioteer who subdued men.13. The Buddhas and Śrāvakas of the Buddhas
are respectful toward it [i.e., the Prātimokṣa];being respectful toward it, one obtains
the unconditioned path.14. Go forth, cling to, employ the Teaching of the Buddhas;destroy
the army of the Lord of Death, like an elephant [destroys] a house of reeds.15. One who
will diligently engage in this Dharma and Vinaya, having abandoned birth and samsara,shall
put an end to suffering.16. This Prātimokṣa has been recited, and Poṣadha made by the saṃgha,
for the increase of the Teaching,and for the sake of mutual protection of Śīla.17.
For the sake of those for whom the Sūtra has been recited, and for the sake of those for whom
Poṣadha has been made,you should guard Sila, as a yak protects its first-born.18. Whatever
merit has been gained from the full exposition of the Prātimokṣa,by that may this entire
world obtain the position of the Chief of Sages.

The Prātimokṣa is concluded.

