10. If robe prices have been sent forth in the hand of a messenger, baving been intended for
a monk. by a king, or king's minister, or Brāhmaṇa, or householder, or townsman, or country
dweller, or wealthy man, or wealthy merchant, or caravan leader, then that messenger, taking
up those prices, should go up to where the monk is, and having approached, should say
to that monk: “The Noble One should know that robe prices have been sent forth, having been
intended for you, by a king, or king's minister, or Brahmans, or householder, or townsman,
or country dweller, or wealthy man, or wealthy merchant, or caravan leader. Let the Noble
One, having taken up compassion, accept [the robe prices].” That messenger should be
spoken to thus by that monk: “Go, venerable messenger. It is ruin for monks to accept robe
prices. but we do accept a robe, having obtained it properly. at the right time.” That messenger
should say to that monk: “Is there some vaiyyāvṛtyakara of the Noble Ones who undertakes
the work of the Noble Ones?” The vaiyyāvṛtyakara should be pointed out by the monk
desiring a robe-either an aramika or an upasaka, saying, “These vaiyyāvṛtyakaras, o messenger,
undertake the work of the monks.” Then that messenger, taking up the robe prices, should
go up to where the vaiyyāvṛtyakara is, and having approached, should say to that vaiyyāvṛtyakara:
“You should know, O Venerable vaiyyāvṛtyakara, that such named monk will approach.
and you, having purchased such and such a robe with these robe prices, should present
him with a robe, properly, at the right time.” Then that messenger. having admonished and
instructed that vaiyyāvṛtyakara properly and thoroughly, should go up to where that monk
is, and having approached, should say to that monk: “That vaiyyāvṛtyakara who was pointed
out by the Noble One has been instructed. You should approach him at the right time, and he
will present you with a robe, properly, at the right time.” The vaiyyāvṛtyakara, having
been approached by the monk desiring a robe. should be requested and reminded two or three
times: “I am, O Venerable vaiyyāvṛtyakara, in need of a robe; I am. O Venerable vaiyyāvṛtyakara,
in need of a robe.” If. having been requested and reminded two or three times. that
robe is obtained, this is good.lfhe should not obtain it, he should stand silently in this
spot up to four. five. or six times. If. standing silently in this spot up to four. five,
or six times. he should obtain the robe. this is good. If he should not obtain it, he should
not pursue it'!' beyond that. If [he should further exert himself] for the obtainment
of the robe, in obtaining the robe, there is a niḥsargika-pāyāntika, Ifhe should not obtain
[the robe]. he should go himself to the place from which these robe prices were brought.
or a trusted messenger should be sent. saying. “These robe prices which were sent by the
Venerable Ones. having been intended for such named monk, do not serve any use for that
monk. Let the Venerable Ones know your own wealth. Do not let your wealth go to ruin.

